>> Scott Moss: All right,
really complicated.
Now I'm gonna show you how to use it and
it's gonna make more sense.
So now that we can see what a day loader
is, let's talk about how to use it.
The first thing is to remember
this is a per request thing.
So that's why I have it
wrapped inside this function,
because I don't want to create
the day loader right now,
cuz then that cache will
always be there on the server.
It's not like a lambda function or
something like stateless thing
that destroys itself every time.
This is a long list server, so if I were
to create this data loader now it will
always be there, which would result in
people accessing other people's caches.
So that's why it's in a function, and
that's why it's in another function
that I execute that creates it.
So this is to ensure that
it's per request, and
as far as setup goes,
I just add it to the context,
just like I did with the models,
it makes sense to put it there.
So we're gonna do context.loaders, and
this is gonna create all
of our loaders for us.
>> Scott Moss: This is so we have
the same, this is just guaranteeing
that we have a new loader
every single request.
>> Speaker 2: That's why it's a function.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
that's why it's a function.
>> Speaker 2: Nice.
>> Scott Moss: Otherwise it would
just be the same one every time,
which is not what you want.
[LAUGH]
Cool, so now that we have the loaders in
the context, that means in our resolvers,
we can just use the loaders.
So, let's go to one of our resolvers.
Let's go to project.
Check out project.resolvers and
what we'll do here, look.
I'm not going to do this one for you.
You gotta do this one.
Can you find a way to use loader?
Actually, this is extra credit.
There's no way you can do that.
[LAUGH] If anybody does this,
go look, it's download stuff but
let's just talk about using the loader.
So here is an example.
So for the project right here,
instead of going to the databases,
this is models,
it's context.model.project findById.
Instead of doing that, what I can do
instead It's like I say ctx.loader.project
and I can say .load is
the method that I want, and
I just give it an ID, and
the ID that I wanna load is this one.
That's gonna make a call to the database
and it's going to load the project for me.
So it's gonna batch it.
Just in case there's any other calls here,
it's going to batch them all,
it's going to wait.
Am I like, are there any other
calls through this project loader,
are there any other calls?
And once you realize there's not,
then it's going to load it and
I'll have access to it.
So I can pretty much replace
all the places in my resolvers
where I'm quering for a project by
project ID with the loader instead.
And then that way, I'm guaranteed to
automatically get it from the cache if it
already has been resolved
in a previous resolver.
Or in this case,
this is a top level resolver, so
there's no way it was previously resolved.
This is just gonna be priming it,
basically.
This is gonna prime the cache with
the first instance of the project.
So all the other resolvers underneath it
can benefit from this project already
being in memory.
Does that make sense?
>> Scott Moss: So if we were to run this,
>> Scott Moss: My God, stop, come here.
>> Scott Moss: All right, there we go,
I got a sticky tab button over here.
>> Scott Moss: So if we were to
run this and we were just like,
what query was that?
Was that projects or projects?
Projects, okay.
Let me grab an ID.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so if we grab
one of these, and we ran projects,
which takes inputs,
>> Scott Moss: Id,
>> Scott Moss: And let's just put id here.
Cannot read property project of undefined.
Is it,
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
loaders, thank you, yes, plural.
>> Scott Moss: There we go and
we got the project.
So the loader works, it did it's job,
it batched it, we were good to go.
The way we can check that is, without
setting up a really advanced example,
is we can just do it again.
I could just, just come down
here I'll load it again, and
I will call this project 2, and project 3.
So we'll do that and
then what we'll do is we'll go into our
loaders and you can see right here.
Project loader batch and
it will tell us how many it batched and
what that looked like so,
I had to restart, so [INAUDIBLE].
So let's do that,
we'll run this query again and
you can see right here,
it only batched one.
There was only one call there so
it was totally fine.
Whereas if that was database call, it
would have been three different database
calls
>> Scott Moss: Does that make sense?
Because the first time,
let's just walk through what happened,
cuz it's two things that's happening.
There's batching and
then there's cashing, right?
The first time this executed,
it actually went into the loader.
>> Scott Moss: It ran the database query,
this one right here, and
that's why we saw this log.
That was the first time.
It ran this database query,
it only got back one project.
There was only one projectId in here, it
did that but then, these next two times,
because this one already got loaded,
it's in cache, it's in memory.
So these never even went into the loader,
into the database calls,
they just came back from cache instantly.
So this one loaded from the database
after it was batched, and
then these loaded from memory.
>> Speaker 3: Is it because
you were doing that O8,
so that she waits to result the first one?
Like if it didn't have O8s on,
wouldn't it make you call it three times?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
if you did not have an await on it,
it would be a race condition and
it depends on what happened first.
The resolution or the caching or the
bashing, you're competing with resources.
So yeah, the await is what
guarantees that order for sure or
if you get provinces with a dot end,
you'll get the same consistency.